- UI Engineering

- Display content and add interactivity

- HTML: Declarative language that is parsed to create the DOM on the C++ Browser Runtime.
- HTML Tags, nodes or **Elements**.
- Read line-by-line one after the other.

- Pixels are different from real data.
- Underlying data that is displayed with pixels on the screen.

## Web Core (C++)

- DOM, Layout and Render Engine

**Layout Engine**: Describe how pixels will be drawn by the device dimensions
**Render Engine**: Creates the bitmap image to draw the pixels every 16ms or 60 Frames per second

## How to interact with C++ DOM

By using Javascript facade functions that allow us to call Web APIs, like DOM and Event APIs.

`document` is described by the Web IDL (Interface Descriptive Language)

`document` has a hidden property that links to the DOM C++ object

`document` belongs to the C++ runtime.

Logging a element will display the HTML command that creates the element. E.G `<div></div>`. Misinterpretative!

Elements returned by `document.querySelector()` will have a hidden link to the original C++ DOM Element
Elements also have getter setter properties to read or write from the original C++ DOM Element

Event handlers will place javascript callback functions into the callback queue.

```javascript
var jsDiv = document.querySelector("div");

jsDiv.textContent = "Hello, World!"; // setter property that updates value from the C++ DOM Element
```

- The browser loads HTML, that loads Javascript by using `<script/>` markup/tag/Element.

- CSS is loaded by using the `<style>` or `<link rel="stylesheet"/>` Elements.
- CSS is parsed to create the CSSOM (DOM for CSS) that describe the styles of the elements and has a mirrored version of the DOM with the styles applied

- Data from DOM Elements are not handled by Javascript, the data must flow between the two runtimes.

## One way data binding

- Any setter on the DOM API will affect the view. Without using a pattern, it becomes difficult to reason about it.

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <script src="./main.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    Hello, World!
    <p>I am here!</p>

    <input />
    <div></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

```javascript
var jsDiv = document.querySelector("");
```

- The One way data binding delegates the responsability of updating the view into a single function. The user/Event Handlers can only update the underlying data that exists in javascript.

1. The first move is to call the converter function into every function that updates underlying data.
2. The second move is to use a interval to call the converter function every 16ms

