## Principles of UI Engineering:

1. Displaying content.
2. Allow user interaction with content.

## Pixels != Data

- Pixels are not drawn manually.
- Pixels are not data.

## HTML

- Declarative Language
- Tags/Markups are Command like
- Parsed to DOM
- Displayed in order of declaration.
- read by the Web Browser (on time process).

## WebCore

### DOM

- Linked list that lives on the WebBrowser runtime (C++)
- Carries Nodes/Elements displayed on the screen.

### Layout / Render Engine

- Maps position of pixels based on the device.

### Render Engine

- Creates the Bitmap Image of the pixels
- Draw them on the WebPage every 16ms or 60 FPS.

## CSS

- Loaded when reading <link rel="stylesheet" />
- Parsed to CSSOM

### CSSOM

- A list on the C++ WebBrowser Runtime.
- Has a list of Elements and its correspondent styles
- Has a mirrored version of DOM with styles.

## Javascript

- Javascript is loaded by the Browser when reading the <script/> tag.
- Javascript prints the HTML command <div></div> instead of displaying the Javacript/C++ object.
- "Control Panel" to manage DOM
- Manage DOM/CSSOM through Web DOM/Event API
- Event handlers are asynchronous
- Flow of data between Javascript/C++

## WebIDL

- Describes the communication using Web APIs between runtimes.

## Web APIs

- Event API
- DOM API

### DOM API

#### document

- Captured Elements are treated as Javascript objects
- Hidden property linking to DOM Element.
- Getters/setters (value, textContent)
- Setters affect view

### Event API

- Event listeners (oninput, onclick)
- Also has getters/setters
- Works Asynchronously
- Rely on closure

#### Setters

- Usually Affects view (value, textContent)
- Many places that can affect view becomes difficult to reason about it.

#### Getters

- Getters to retrieve current data from the DOM

## One way data binding (solution of many setters)

- User must update underlying data
- Any underlying data updated will be updated on the screen.
- A single converter function that updates underlying data on view (propagates to all underlying data).
- Easier to reason about it.
- Updates everytime (React like)

