# UI Engineering

## Principles

1. Display Content
2. Create user interaction in it.

## Pixels

How to display pixels on the screen?

### HTML

- Declarative language
- Elements parsed to real DOM in order of declaration

### DOM

- List in **C++** Browser runtime. (Possibly a struct)
- Representation of the whole page and its elements.
- Elements are displayed in order of declaration.

#### CSSOM

- Also a list in **C++** Browser runtime.
- Contains the elements styles.
- Has a copy of DOM.

### Layout Engine

- Maps how pixels will be displayed based on the device.

### Render Engine

- Creates the bitmap image of elements
- Paints on the screen every 16ms (60 FPS)

## Pixels and Data

- Pixels are not Data
- Data must exist and displayed on the screen.

## Javascript

- Control panel to access Web APIs (DOM, Event)
- Different runtime
- Communication between runtimes with the APIs is managed by **WebIDL**

### DOM API

- Access real DOM by using the **document** property.

#### document

- Has a reference that points to real DOM.

##### Getters/Setters

```javascript
document.textContent = "Hello"; // setter or target reference
console.log(document.value); // getter or source reference
```

- Elements retrieved with document.querySelector have a reference to the real DOM element

- setters affect the view
- centralize side-effects into a single converter function
- difficult for reasoning

- Everytime we calling a handle event, we are updating some data.

```javascript
var input = document.querySelector("input")
var div = document.querySelector("div");
var data = ""

input.oninput = handleInput


handleInput() {
    // runs asynchronously
    data = input.value; // getter
    div.textContent = data; // affect view / setter
}
```

```javascript
var input = document.querySelector("input")
var div = document.querySelector("div");
var data = ""

input.oninput = handleInput
input.onclick = handleClick

function handleClick() {
    data = "Hello";
}


function handleInput() {
    // runs asynchronously
    data = input.value; // getter
}

function dataToView() {
    div.textContent = data;
}

setInterval(dataToView, 15)
```

- console logs the command that created the element, not the element from the DOM or a javascript object

- a converter function that takes underlying data and displays on the screen every 16ms (One-way data binding)

- Using template literals to produce elements
- Virtual DOM

