# State Management and React Performance

# React Performance

## Causes of re-renders

1. State changed
2. Props changed
3. Parent changed
4. Context changed

## React Fiber

- React stopped to rely on the callback order.
- A huge component would block the Thread of Execution til it finishes its execution.
- High priority events like inputs from the user would be blocked.
- Implements its own "queue management"
- Lanes of priority

- useMemo
- useCallback
- React.memo()
- React compiler

## Common problems

- Context propagates re-renders to its children
- Context purpouse it's to handle state that needs to re-render children and does not change a lot (Theme, user)
- Browser paints content on the screen every 16ms.
- React Dev Tools usage
- If the component is taking less than that, it does not require overengineering for high performance.


# State Management

- Started with simple techniques
- Reducing the amount of useStates by using the following techniques:
- useRef for DOM Elements and Timers. Data that does not need to trigger re-renders
- Analysis of possible derived states
- Compressing useStates into a single object.
- useReducer to handle complex state logic.
- useReducer handling with state-first architecture (state machines).
- Avoid cascading useEffect pattern by observing state change.

## useState

- useState for simple states/simples logic

## State Machines

## useRef

- prevent re-renders
- timers, DOM elements

## useState

- simple states
- complex logic lives on event handlers

## useReducer

- state first approach (raw state machine)

## useState x useReducer x XState

## State Machines

- Transitions and Guards must be pure.
- Actors (Invokation)
- Machines
- Transition actions
- Entry actions
